Clarify the performance (non) benefit of DocumentFragment (#18846)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/documentfragment/index.md

## Usage notes

A common use for `DocumentFragment` is to create one, assemble a DOM subtree within it, then append or insert the fragment into the DOM using {{domxref("Node")}} interface methods such as {{domxref("Node.appendChild", "appendChild()")}}, {{domxref("Element.append", "append()")}}, or {{domxref("Node.insertBefore", "insertBefore()")}}. Doing this moves the fragment's nodes into the DOM, leaving behind an empty `DocumentFragment`.

This interface is also of great use with Web components: {{HTMLElement("template")}} elements contain a `DocumentFragment` in their {{domxref("HTMLTemplateElement.content")}} property.

An empty `DocumentFragment` can be created using the {{domxref("document.createDocumentFragment()")}} method or the constructor.

## Performance

> The performance benefit of `DocumentFragment` is often overstated. In fact, in some engines, using a `DocumentFragment` is slower than appending to the document in a loop.

Reviewer: Since you have the benchmark and this may cause some readers to go `[citation needed]`, maybe add it as a footnote (if possible on MDN)?

Author: I'd be interested in hearing from MDN editors on this. I'm not sure what the policy is on external links. The benchmark is at https://jsbench.me/02l63eic9j/1.

Author: Cool, I've added a link to the benchmark

Reviewer 2: I tried to identify the external URL policy for MDN and failed (!); someone more informed will chime in, but my sense is that MDN doesn't follow the citation needed pattern in-content, and having that documented in the pull request rather than the content feels probably good enough.

(I've separately suggested it may be interesting for MDN to track best practices in a more structured fashion, among other things to deprecate them - in such a context, keeping track of relevant supporting evidence would make more sense)

Reviewer 3: Seems this isn't deployed on the website, but: https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/meta/content/en/writing/style/external-links.md

> The performance benefit of `DocumentFragment` is often overstated. In fact, in some engines, using a `DocumentFragment` is slower than appending to the document in a loop — as demonstrated in [this benchmark](https://jsbench.me/02l63eic9j/1). However, the difference between these examples is so marginal that it's better to optimize for readability than performance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The performance benefit of `DocumentFragment` is often overstated. In fact, in some engines, using a `DocumentFragment` is slower than appending to the document in a loop as demonstrated in [this benchmark](https://jsbench.me/02l63eic9j/1). However, the difference between these examples is so marginal that it's better to optimize for readability than performance.
```

## Usage notes

A common use for `DocumentFragment` is to create one, assemble a DOM subtree within it, then append or insert the fragment into the DOM using {{domxref("Node")}} interface methods such as {{domxref("Node.appendChild", "appendChild()")}}, {{domxref("Element.append", "append()")}}, or {{domxref("Node.insertBefore", "insertBefore()")}}. Doing this moves the fragment's nodes into the DOM, leaving behind an empty `DocumentFragment`.

This interface is also of great use with Web components: {{HTMLElement("template")}} elements contain a `DocumentFragment` in their {{domxref("HTMLTemplateElement.content")}} property.

An empty `DocumentFragment` can be created using the {{domxref("document.createDocumentFragment()")}} method or the constructor.

## Performance

> The performance benefit of `DocumentFragment` is often overstated. In fact, in some engines, using a `DocumentFragment` is slower than appending to the document in a loop.
> 
> [Benchmark](https://jsbench.me/02l63eic9j/1). However, the difference between these examples is so marginal, it's better to optimise for readability than performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The performance benefit of `DocumentFragment` is often overstated. In fact, in some engines, using a `DocumentFragment` is slower than appending to the document in a loop — as demonstrated in [this benchmark](https://jsbench.me/02l63eic9j/1). However, the difference between these examples is so marginal that it's better to optimize for readability than performance.
```

## Usage notes

> A common use for `DocumentFragment` is to create one, assemble a DOM subtree within it, then append or insert the fragment into the DOM using {{domxref("Node")}} interface methods such as {{domxref("Node.appendChild", "appendChild()")}}, {{domxref("Element.append", "append()")}}, or {{domxref("Node.insertBefore", "insertBefore()")}}. Doing this moves the fragment's nodes into the DOM, leaving behind an empty `DocumentFragment`. Because all of the nodes are inserted into the document at once, only one reflow and render is triggered instead of potentially one for each node inserted if they were inserted separately.

Author: Reflows don't happen on append, so this information is misleading

Reviewer: Should this ("Reflows don't happen on append") be just stated in the prose?

Author: It'd be a long article if it listed all the cases where reflows _don't_ happen 😄

Reviewer: Since it's the source of the misconception, I still think it makes sense to mention it here.

Reviewer 4: How hard is it to mention where reflows do happen?

Author: I can add it in, but it's kinda irrelevant to this topic

Reviewer 4: @tomayac I'm satisfied that we don't need to add anything. I'm approving.
